.Dd January 12, 2020
.Os libzt 0.1
.Dt ZT_VISIT_TEST_CASE 3 PRM
.Sh NAME
.Nm zt_visit_test_case ,
.Nm ZT_VISIT_TEST_CASE ,
.Nm zt_visit_test_suite ,
.Nm ZT_VISIT_TEST_SUITE
.Nd discover test cases and their structure
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In zt.h
.Ft void
.Fo zt_visit_test_case
.Fa "zt_visitor v"
.Fa "zt_test_case_func func"
.Fa "const char *name"
.Fc
.Fd #define ZT_VISIT_TEST_CASE(v, tcase) zt_visit_test_case(v, tcase, #tcase)
.Ft void
.Fo zt_visit_test_case
.Fa "zt_visitor v"
.Fa "zt_test_suite_func func"
.Fa "const char *name"
.Fc
.Fd #define ZT_VISIT_TEST_SUITE(v, tsuite) zt_visit_test_suite(v, tsuite, #tsuite)
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn zt_visit_test_case
and
.Fn zt_visit_test_suite ,
or more usually - under their macro from
.Fn ZT_VISIT_TEST_CASE
and
.Fn ZT_VISIT_TEST_SUITE ,
are used to implement discovery for test suites and test cases. Test suites are
represented as functions that visit other test suites and test cases. Test
cases are represented as functions that execute actual test code. 
.Pp
The macros are provided as convenience to avoid having to invent names.
.Pp
Typically the main test suite is passed as an argument to
.Fn zt_main
which handles the rest of the discovery, and if necessary, execution.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Visit functions do not return any value.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example shows how to create a test suite with two test cases. A
suite can contain any number of nested suites and test cases.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <zt.h>

static void test_foo(struct zt_test* t) {
    printf("foo invoked\\n");
}

static void suite_inner(zt_visitor v) {
    ZT_VISIT_TEST_CASE(v, test_foo);
}


static void test_bar(struct zt_test* t) {
    printf("bar invoked\\n");
}

static void main_suite(zt_visitor v) {
    ZT_VISIT_TEST_SUITE(v, suite_inner);
    ZT_VISIT_TEST_CASE(v, test_bar);
}

int main(int argc, char** argv, char** envp) {
    return zt_main(argc, argv, envp, main_suite);
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zt_main 3 ,
.Xr zt_test_suite_func 3 ,
.Xr zt_test_case_func 3 ,
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn zt_visit_test_case
and the
.Fn zt_visit_test_suite
functions, as well as the corresponding macros, first appeared in libzt 0.1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Zygmunt Krynicki" Aq Mt me@zygoon.pl
